Initial BT tutorial (#141)
ros-planning/navigation.ros.org: tutorials/docs/custom_behavior_tree.rst

In short, this subtree is triggered when the ``Navigation`` subtree returns ``FAILURE`` controls the recoveries at the system level (in the case the contextual recoveries in the ``Navigation`` subtree were not sufficient).
                               
|

 .. image:: images/custom_behavior_tree/recovery_subtree.png
    :align: center

|         

And the XML snippet:

.. code-block:: xml

    <ReactiveFallback name="RecoveryFallback">
        <GoalUpdated/>
        <RoundRobin name="RecoveryActions">
            <Sequence name="ClearingActions">
                <ClearEntireCostmap name="ClearLocalCostmap-Subtree" service_name="local_costmap/clear_entirely_local_costmap"/>
                <ClearEntireCostmap name="ClearGlobalCostmap-Subtree" service_name="global_costmap/clear_entirely_global_costmap"/>
            </Sequence>
            <Spin spin_dist="1.57"/>
            <Wait wait_duration="5"/>
            <BackUp backup_dist="0.15" backup_speed="0.025"/>
        </RoundRobin>
    </ReactiveFallback>

The top most parent, ``ReactiveFallback`` controls the flow between the rest of the system wide recoveries, and asynchronously checking if a new goal has been received.

> If at any point the goal gets updated, this subtree will halt all children and return ``SUCCESS``.

Reviewer: "This allows for quick reactions to new goals and preempt currently executing recoveries."

5. Assume  the ``Navigation`` subtree returns ``FAILURE`` (clearing the costmaps, attempting a spin, and waiting were *still* not sufficient to recover the system. The robot will move onto the ``Recovery`` subtree and attempt the ``BackUp`` action. Let's say that the robot attempts the ``BackUp`` action and was able to successfully complete the action. The ``BackUp`` action node returns ``SUCCESS`` and so now we move on to the Navigation subtree again. 

6. In this hypothetical scenario, let's assume that the ``BackUp`` action allowed the robot to successfully navigate in the ``Navigation`` subtree, and the robot reaches the goal. In this case, the overall BT will still return ``SUCCESS``.

If the ``BackUp`` action was not sufficient enough to allow the robot to become un-stuck, the above logic will go on indefinitely until the ``number_of_retries`` in the parent of the ``Navigate`` subtree and ``Recovery`` subtree is exceeded, or if all the system-wide recoveries in the ``Recovery`` subtree return ``FAILURE`` (this is unlikely, and likely points to some other system failure).

> Custom Action

Reviewer: I love all of this description and walking through the BT. Can we move this over to the "Nav2 Behavior Trees" section as another subpage called "Detailed Behavior Tree Walkthrough". Then we can have that as another bullet in the Prerequisites for this tutorial.

=============

> 

Reviewer: Then, I think we can focus in on this tutorial. The new intro paragraph would read

> There are many example behavior trees provided in nav2_bt_navigator/behavior_trees, but these sometimes have to be re-configured based on the application of the robot. The following tutorial will walk through how to modify the current main default BT navigate_to_pose_w_replanning_and_recovery.xml to do another potentially useful task. This example will show how to develop a BT that follows a predefined path.

So you an still start with the image of the default BT and then dive into the updates needed to do this tutorial task.

> .. _custom_behavior_tree:

Reviewer: When talking about the recoveries in the main navigation subtree, you can refer to them as "contextual recoveries" because they are recoveries specifically selected for that context of failure (vs system level recoveries in the recovery subtree that are to deal with system-wide failures)

> Creating a Custom Behavior Tree in ROS2 / Nav2

Reviewer: I'd drop the "in ROS2 / Nav2", I think that's clear from context on out website :wink:

**********************************************

- `Overview`_
- `Prerequisites`_
- `Navigate With Replanning and Recovery`_
- `NavigateWithReplanning`_
- `RecoveryFallback`_
- `Custom Action`_
- `Adding to Launch File`_
- `Testing`_

Overview
========

This document serves as a reference guide to the main behavior tree (BT) used in Nav2,
and explains the process for developing and customizing this BT for ROS 2 and Nav2.

There are many example behavior trees provided in ``nav2_bt_navigator/behavior_trees``,

> but these usually have to be configured and modified based on the application of the robot. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but these sometimes have to be re-configured based on the application of the robot. 
```

The following tutorial will walk through the current main default BT ``navigate_w_replanning_and_recovery.xml``
and will show users how to modify this BT in potentially useful ways, using the example of developing a BT that follows a predefined path.

Prerequisites
=============

* Have a valid installation of Nav2 

> * Have a robot (simulated, or physical) that can be used for testing that already works with Nav2

Reviewer: Add a ref link to the getting started page so that they can get started if this is the first page they're looking at

* Become familiar with the concept of a behavior tree before continuing with this tutorial

>     * There is a short explaination in `navigation concepts <../../concepts/index.html>`_

Reviewer: "explaination" -> explanation. In general, type this into something with spell checking and fix all of them, I won't call them all out in the PR review

Author: I am being more careful about this now, although the latest commit here should no longer have that, I am leaving this discussion "unresolved" so I remember to do that one final time before we are ready.

    * General tutorial (not Nav2 specific) on the `BehaviorTree CPP V3 <https://www.behaviortree.dev/>`_ website.

> 

Reviewer: Between prereq's and "Navigate With Replanning and Recovery", I think you should add a section giving a more gentle introduction building on the most basic behavior tree basics. For example, you  can assume they know what an action/decorator/condition node are, but you should introduce some of our implementations of these that are fundamental. Like ComputePathToPose FollowPath GoalUpdated and Rate/Distance/TimeControllers. That way you give them a little more gentle entry into learning about "what is an action node" to "what are some of the action nodes in nav2" so that when they see the BT, they have some understanding they can tie back into.

Navigate With Replanning and Recovery
=====================================

The following section will describe in detail the concept of the main and default BT currently used in Nav2, ``navigate_w_replanning_and_recovery.xml``.
This behavior tree replans the global path periodically at 1 Hz and it also has recovery actions.

.. code-block:: xml

>     <root main_tree_to_execute="MainTree">

Reviewer: This BT (and others) in this have incorrect indentations. Rate controller should be indenting its members, so should reactive fallback. Please go over and correct in all BTs

                  <GoalUpdated/>
                  <ClearEntireCostmap name="ClearLocalCostmap-Context" service_name="local_costmap/clear_entirely_local_costmap"/>
              </ReactiveFallback>
              </RecoveryNode>
          </PipelineSequence>
          <ReactiveFallback name="RecoveryFallback">
              <GoalUpdated/>
              <RoundRobin name="RecoveryActions">
              <Sequence name="ClearingActions">
                  <ClearEntireCostmap name="ClearLocalCostmap-Subtree" service_name="local_costmap/clear_entirely_local_costmap"/>
                  <ClearEntireCostmap name="ClearGlobalCostmap-Subtree" service_name="global_costmap/clear_entirely_global_costmap"/>
              </Sequence>
              <Spin spin_dist="1.57"/>
              <Wait wait_duration="5"/>
              <BackUp backup_dist="0.15" backup_speed="0.025"/>
              </RoundRobin>
          </ReactiveFallback>
          </RecoveryNode>
      </BehaviorTree>
    </root>

The above XML probably looks complex and overwhelming, but we can represent this behavior tree as an actual tree
using this `XML ASCII tool <https://nickpisacane.github.io/AsciiTree/>`_.

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: None of this is rendering. You may want to use Groot rather to create images instead. It would make it easier to update over time too if we just needed to update the BT for changes. You can see the test version of this website here https://650-240847415-gh.circle-artifacts.com/0/html/tutorials/docs/custom_behavior_tree.html

                                        |                                                                                                                                                             
                             ___________|______                                                                                                                                                       
                             |                |                                                                                                                                                       
                             |                |                                                                                                                                                       
                        GoalUpdated  ClearEntireCostmap                                                                                                                                               

This is likely still a bit overwhelming, but this tree can be broken into two smaller subtrees that we can focus on one at a time.

> These smaller subtrees are the children of the top-most ``RecoveryNode``, let's call these the ``NavigateWithReplanning`` subtree and the ``RecoveryFallback`` subtree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These smaller subtrees are the children of the top-most ``RecoveryNode``, let's call these the ``Navigation`` subtree and the ``Recovery`` subtree.
```

These are the actual words I use to describe them, so it would be good to show that here so that as they read other discussions they can draw the parallel

This can be represented in the following way:

.. code-block::

> 

Reviewer: Also, probably use groot, not rendering

                      root                      
                        |                       
                       _|                       
                       |                        
                       |                        
                 BehaviorTree                   
                       |                        
                      _|                        
                      |                         
                      |                         
                RecoveryNode                    
                      |                         
            __________|___________              
            |                    |              
            |                    |              
 NavigateWithReplanning  RecoveryFallback       

> **Warning**

Reviewer: Make this an actual RST warning, you can see examples of it in https://navigation.ros.org/build_instructions/index.html#manually-build-main dropdowns

Vocabulary can be a large point of confusion here for a beginner.

* A ``Node`` when discussing BT is entirely diferent than a ``Node`` in the ROS2 context. 

> * A ``Recovery`` in the context of BT is entirely different than a ``Recovery`` in the Nav2 context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A ``Recovery`` is in the context of BT, not a navigation ``Recovery`` behavior
```

> In Nav2, a ``Recovery`` refers to a specific action executed by the robot. When calling out the ``RecoveryFallback``,

Reviewer: This can be removed, the warning covers sufficiently

we mean it in the BT context, but when calling out the ``RecoveryFallback`` we mean it in the Nav2 context.

The ``RecoveryNode`` is the parent to these two subtrees, which means, that if the ``NavigateWithReplanning`` subtree returns ``FAILURE``,
the ``RecoveryFallback`` subtree will be ticked. 

> * If the ``RecoveryFallback`` subtree then returns ``SUCCESS`` then ``NavigateWithReplanning`` will be executed again.

Reviewer: Bullets need a line separating, this does not render how you think it would https://650-240847415-gh.circle-artifacts.com/0/html/tutorials/docs/custom_behavior_tree.html

* Otherwise, if the ``RecoveryFallback`` returns ``FAILURE`` (this is not likely ... more on that later), then the overall tree will try again as determined by the parameter ``number_of_retries``.
* If the ``number_of_retries`` is exceeded, the overall tree will return ``FAILURE``.

The default ``navigate_w_replanning_and_recovery`` has a ``number_of_retries`` of 6, but this parameter should be changed if your use case has more or less acceptable retries.

.. code-block:: xml

    <RecoveryNode number_of_retries="6" name="NavigateRecovery">

For more details regarding the ``RecoveryNode`` please see the `configuration guide <../../configuration/packages/bt-plugins/controls/RecoveryNode.html>`_.

> Note that the ``RecoveryNode`` is a custom ``control`` type node made for Nav2, but can be replaced by any other control type node based on the application. 

Reviewer: I think this line can be removed, obviously any of these can be removed at any time

> Replacements in the BT goes without saying for any node, and from here on out I will only call this out for particularly interesting subsitutions.

Reviewer: Add: "The following two sections discuss the navigation and recovery subtrees at more length."

> NavigateWithReplanning

Reviewer: "Navigation Subtree"

The XML of this subtree is as follows:

.. code-block:: xml

    <PipelineSequence name="NavigateWithReplanning">
        <RateController hz="1.0">
        <RecoveryNode number_of_retries="1" name="ComputePathToPose">
            <ComputePathToPose goal="{goal}" path="{path}" planner_id="GridBased"/>
            <ReactiveFallback name="ComputePathToPoseRecoveryFallback">
            <GoalUpdated/>
            <ClearEntireCostmap name="ClearGlobalCostmap-Context" service_name="global_costmap/clear_entirely_global_costmap"/>
            </ReactiveFallback>
        </RecoveryNode>
        </RateController>
        <RecoveryNode number_of_retries="1" name="FollowPath">
        <FollowPath path="{path}" controller_id="FollowPath"/>
        <ReactiveFallback name="FollowPathRecoveryFallback">
            <GoalUpdated/>
            <ClearEntireCostmap name="ClearLocalCostmap-Context" service_name="local_costmap/clear_entirely_local_costmap"/>
        </ReactiveFallback>
        </RecoveryNode>
    </PipelineSequence>

And the ASCII representation:

.. code-block::

> 

Reviewer: groot, probably :-)

                            |                                                          |                     
         ___________________|________                                       ___________|______               
         |                          |                                       |                |               
         |                          |                                       |                |               
 ComputePathToPose          ReactiveFallback                           GoalUpdated  ClearEntireCostmap       
                                    |                                                                        
                         ___________|______                                                                  
                         |                |                                                                  
                         |                |                                                                  
                    GoalUpdated  ClearEntireCostmap                                                          

> The parent node of this subtree is ``PipelineSequence``, which again is a custom Nav2 BT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parent node of this subtree is ``PipelineSequence``, which is a custom Nav2 BT node.
```

While this subtree looks complicated, the crux of the tree can be represented with only one parent and two children nodes like this:

.. code-block::

>         PipelineSequence         

Reviewer: didnt render, but I think this could be ascii if you got it to render, its simple enough that wouldn't change

                |                
         _______|_________       
         |               |       
         |               |       
 ComputePathToPose  FollowPath   

> The other children and leaves of the tree are simply to throttle, handle failures, and handle updated goals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other children and leaves of the tree are simply to throttle, handle failures, and ensuring the robot is responsive to updated goals.
```

> The ``PipelineSequence`` allows the ``ComputePathToPose`` to be ticked, and once that succeeds, the ``ComputePathToPose`` and ``FollowPath`` to be ticked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``PipelineSequence`` allows the ``ComputePathToPose`` to be ticked, and once that succeeds, ``FollowPath`` to be ticked.
```

The full description of this control node is in the `configuration guide <../../configuration/packages/bt-plugins/controls/PipelineSequence.html>`_.
In the above distillation of the BT, if ``ComputePathToPose`` or ``FollowPath`` return ``FAILURE``,
the parent ``PipelineSequence`` will also return ``FAILURE`` and will therefore the BT will tick the ``RecoveryFallback`` node.

However, in the full ``NavigateWithReplanning`` subtree, there are a few other nodes to consider.

> For example, the ``RateController`` node simply helps keep the BT ticks at the specified frequency. The default frequency for this BT is 1 hz. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the ``RateController`` node simply helps keep planning at the specified frequency. The default frequency for this BT is 1 hz. 
```

> This is done to prevent the BT from hitting the planning server with too many useless requests. Consider changing this frequency to something higher or lower depending on the application and the computational cost of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is done to prevent the BT from hitting the planning server with too many useless requests at the tree update rate (100Hz). Consider changing this frequency to something higher or lower depending on the application and the computational cost of 
```

calculating the path. 

The next child in this tree is the ``RecoveryNode``, which wraps two children,  the ``ComputePathToPose`` and the ``ReactiveFallback``.

> Recall from above that the ``RecoveryNode`` that this will return ``SUCCESS`` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recall from above that the ``RecoveryNode`` will return ``SUCCESS`` 
```

Reviewer: This paragraph is really hard to read, might want to consider a way to describe the impact of this node without going through all of the options literally

if ``ComputePathToPose`` returns ``SUCCESS`` or if ``ComputePathToPose`` returns ``FAILURE`` but the ``ReactiveFallback`` returns ``SUCCESS``. 
It will return ``FAILURE`` if both ``ComputePathToPose`` and the ``ReactiveFallback`` returns ``FAILURE``, or if the ``number_of_retries`` is violated (in this case one retry is allowed) .. which will then  cause the BT to enter the ``RecoveryFallback`` subtree.

Consider changing the ``number_of_retries`` parameter in the BT if your application requires more retries before a recovery action is triggered.

> The ``ComputePathToPose`` is a simple action client to the ``ComputePathToPose`` ROS 2 action server.

Reviewer: Remove this - this opens another topic I don't think we want to discuss here (what are these BT nodes ACTUALLY doing?)

The guide to configure this action node can be found in the `configuration guide <../../configuration/packages/bt-plugins/actions/ComputePathToPose.html>`_.

Finally the ``ReactiveFallback`` node simply will tick it's 2nd child, ``ClearEntireCostmap`` *unless* the state of the condition node ``GoalUpdated`` returns ``SUCCESS`` (when, as the name suggests, the goal is updated).
In essence, the global costmap will be cleared unless the goal has been updated. ``ClearEntireCostmap`` is a recovery action that implements the ``clear_entirely_costmap`` service. 
In this case, the BT has set this to the global costmap, which makes sense as the global costmap would be the costmap that would affect the robot's ability to ``ComputePathToPose``.

> For convenience, the ``NavigateWithReplanning`` ASCII representation is below again:

Reviewer: I'd remove this line and the ASCII, just have it 1 time in the section, they can scroll up 1/2 a page :-)

                            |                                                          |                     
         ___________________|________                                       ___________|______               
         |                          |                                       |                |               
         |                          |                                       |                |               
 ComputePathToPose          ReactiveFallback                           GoalUpdated  ClearEntireCostmap       
                                    |                                                                        
                         ___________|______                                                                  
                         |                |                                                                  
                         |                |                                                                  
                    GoalUpdated  ClearEntireCostmap                                                          

> Now that we have covered the structure of the first major subtree, the ``ComputePathToPose`` subtree, the ``FollowPath`` subtree is largely symetric.

Reviewer: Mirror comments above for the follow path section below

The guide to configure this action node can be found in the `configuration guide <../../configuration/packages/bt-plugins/actions/FollowPath.html>`_.

If the ``FollowPath`` action node returns ``SUCCESS`` then this overall subtree will return ``SUCCESS``,
however if ``FollowPath`` returns ``FAILURE`` then the ``RecoveryNode`` will tick the ``ReactiveFallback``
which will tick ``ClearEntireCostmap`` (local) *unless* the ``GoalUpdated`` return ``SUCCESS``.
The local costmap makes sense to clear in this case as it is the costmap that would impede the robot's ability to follow the path.

In both of these subtrees, checking the ``GoalUpdated`` condition node is what gives this subtree  the name ``NavigateWithReplanning``.

We have now gone completely over the possibilities and actions in the ``NavigateWithReplanning``,
let's move on to the ``RecoveryFallback`` subtree, which will be ticked if the ``NavigateWithReplanning`` overall returns ``FAILURE``. The most likely scenario for 
this subtree to return ``FAILURE`` if the ``number_of_retries`` is violated on the ``RecoveryNode`` that wraps either the ``ComputePathToPose`` action, or the ``FollowPath`` action.

> RecoveryFallback

Reviewer: "Recovery SubTree"

================
The recovery fallback subtree is the second big "half" of the Nav2 default ``navigate_w_replanning_and_recovery.xml`` tree.
In short, this subtree is triggered when the ``NavigateWithReplanning`` subtree returns ``FAILURE`` and this subtree helps select the appropriate recovery to be taken based on how many previous times the recovery and the ``NavigateWithReplanning`` subtree returns ``FAILURE``.

Below is an ASCII representation of the subtree:

.. code-block::

>                                         |                                             

Reviewer: Groot :-)

  GoalUpdated                            RoundRobin                                   
                                              |                                       
                                   ___________|__________________________             
                                   |                       |     |      |             
                                   |                       |     |      |             
                               Sequence                  Spin  Wait  BackUp           
                                   |                                                  
                        ___________|_________                                         
                        |                   |                                         
                        |                   |                                         
               ClearEntireCostmap  ClearEntireCostmap                                 

The top most parent is ``ReactiveFallback`` which dictates that unless ``GoalUpdated`` returns ``SUCCESS``, tick the 2nd child (in  this case the ``RoundRobin``.

> This should look familiar to the replanning portions of the ``NavigateWithReplanning`` tree. This is a common BT pattern to handle the situation "Unless 'this condition' happens,Do action A".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This should look familiar to the replanning portions of the ``NavigateWithReplanning`` tree. This is a common BT pattern to handle the situation "Unless 'this condition' happens, Do action A".
```

> Condition nodes can be very powerful, and other custom NAV2 condition nodes include:

Reviewer: "Nav2"

> - DistanceTraveled

Reviewer: Space between them to render as a list

- GoalReached
- isBatteryLow
- TimeExpired

These condition nodes can be extremely powerful and are typically paired with ``ReactiveFallback``. It can be easy to imagine wrapping this whole ``navigate_w_replanning_and_recovery`` tree

> in a ``ReactiveFallback`` with a ``isBatteryLow``condition -- meaning the ``navigate_w_replanning_and_recovery`` tree will execute *unless* the battery becomes low. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in a ``ReactiveFallback`` with a ``isBatteryLow`` condition -- meaning the ``navigate_w_replanning_and_recovery`` tree will execute *unless* the battery becomes low (and then entire a different subtree for docking to recharge). 
```

> In this case, ``GoalUpdated`` returns ``FAILURE`` (keep in mind this status is checked asynchronously), then the BT moves on to tick the ``RoundRobin`` node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If ``GoalUpdated`` returns ``FAILURE``, then the BT moves on to tick the ``RoundRobin`` node.
```

Reviewer: You also cover this in the paragraph above, make sure to read through this, there's some non-linearity jumping back in forth or entering a detailed discussion about a BT node in the middle of walking through the tree. Move all BT node explanations first, then go into describing the flow of the tree. Apply for all descriptions :-)

and explains the process for customizing this BT.

There are many example behavior trees provided in ``nav2_bt_navigator/behavior_trees``,
but these sometimes have to be re-configured based on the application of the robot. 
The following tutorial will walk through the current main default BT ``navigate_w_replanning_and_recovery.xml``
and will show users how to modify this BT in potentially useful ways, using the example of developing a BT that follows a predefined path.

Prerequisites
=============

- Have a valid installation of Nav2 (see the `getting started guide <../../getting_started/index.html>`_)

- Have a robot (simulated, or physical) that can be used for testing that can already navigate with Nav2

- Become familiar with the concept of a behavior tree before continuing with this tutorial
  
    - Read the short explanation in `navigation concepts <../../concepts/index.html>`_
  
    - Read the general tutorial ang guide (not Nav2 specific) on the `BehaviorTree CPP V3 <https://www.behaviortree.dev/>`_ website. Specifically, the "Learn the Basics" section on the BehaviorTree CPP V3 website explains the basic generic nodes that will be used that this guide will build upon.

> Introduction To Nav2 Specific Nodes

Reviewer: I think this section, `Introduction To Nav2 Specific Nodes`, should be placed under the `behavior_trees` page now [that it exists](https://728-240847415-gh.circle-artifacts.com/0/html/behavior_trees/index.html). It should be a new page above the other 3 explaining the basics behind the default BTs titled "Introduction To Nav2 Nodes". It will be the explanation of the flow of the important Nav2 BT nodes so that all explanation of the trees afterwards will have that understanding.

Reviewer: After its moved, the introduction above this should reference that page to read before going into how to create your own custom behavior tree.

There are quite a few custom Nav2 BT nodes that are provided to be used in the Nav2 specific fashion. Some commonly used Nav2 nodes will be described below.
The full list of custom BT nodes can be found in the `nav2_behavior_tree plugins folder <https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/tree/main/nav2_behavior_tree/plugins>`_.
The `configuration guide <../../configuration/packages/bt-plugins/configuring-bt-xml.html>`_ can also be quite useful.

Action Nodes
------------

- ComputePathToPose - ComputePathToPose Action Server Client (Planner Interface)

- FollowPath - FollowPath Action Server Client (Controller Interface)

- Spin, Wait, Backup - Recoveries Action Server Client

- ClearCostmapService - ClearCostmapService Server Clients

Upon completion, these action nodes will return ``SUCCESS`` if the action server believes the action has been completed correctly, ``RUNNING`` when still running, and will return ``FAILURE`` otherwise. Note that in the above list,
the `ClearCostmapService` action node is *not* an action server client, but a service client.

Condition Nodes
---------------

> - GoalUpdated

Reviewer: Having the `name - explanation` format in Condition as you had in Action would be nice (e.g. explain what each are)

- GoalReached

- InitialPoseReceived

- isBatteryLow

The above list of condition nodes can be used to probe particular aspects of the system. Typically they will return ``SUCCESS`` is ``TRUE`` and ``FAILURE`` when ``FALSE``.
The key condition that is used in the default Nav2 BT is ``GoalUpdated`` which is checked asynchronously within particular subtrees. This condition node allows for the behavior described as "If the goal has updated, then we must replan". 
Condition nodes are typically paired with ReactiveFallback nodes.

> Decorator: Rate Controller

Reviewer: There are more controller decorators taht should be mentioned - speed, distance, and rate are the big 3. But there are a few more that should be listed in bullet as above https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/tree/main/nav2_behavior_tree/plugins/decorator

--------------------------

> The rate controller node helps control the ticking of its children nodes. The tick rate is an exposed blackboard parameter, it is being used in the default Nav2 BT to limit the rate at which the ``ComputePathToPose`` action node is called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rate controller node helps control the ticking of its children nodes. The tick rate is an exposed port, it is being used in the default Nav2 BT to limit the rate at which the ``ComputePathToPose`` action node is called.
```

Control: PipelineSequence
-------------------------

> The PipelineSequence control node re-ticks previous children when a child returns ``RUNNING``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``PipelineSequence`` control node re-ticks previous children when a child returns ``RUNNING``.
```

This node is similar to the ``Sequence`` node, with the additional property that the children prior to the "current" are re-ticked, (resembling the flow of water in a pipe).
If at any point a child returns ``FAILURE``, all children will be halted and the parent node will also return ``FAILURE``. Upon ``SUCCESS`` of the last node in the sequence, this node will halt and return ``SUCCESS``.

To explain this further, here is an example BT that uses PipelineSequence.

|

>  .. image:: images/custom_behavior_tree/control_pipelineSequence.png

Reviewer: In this example run, ActionA already returned success, why did it return running again and running at the same time as ActionC? I think this is confusing to a first introduction of this node - even if that's how the node works (which I'm not 100% sure it is). 

Looking at the code, https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/blob/main/nav2_behavior_tree/plugins/control/pipeline_sequence.cpp#L36 it seems like if ActionA returned running, the loop would be exited with a running status, so ActionC wouldn't be called to even be able to have the running state until A re-completed again.

So I think the image below 4 should be (running, success, idle), until running re-succeeds to trigger ActionC.

Author: I think the way it is written here is correct, although I think you are right that is might be a bad first intro of the node. 
We can modify the scenario so that `ActionA` does not return `RUNNING` again after already being ticked, although I think we lose some of the nuance of the pipeline if we do that. 

> In this example run, ActionA already returned success, why did it return running again and running at the same time as ActionC?

A gets reticked, even though it has returned SUCCESS before, but I don't think the parent control node will not exit with `RUNNING` since the A will not be the `last_child_ticked_` in this case (the index of B would have been assigned to that variable in this case) .

 https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/blob/792893a5b56256cff8e9d4fb581e71d23892b5d6/nav2_behavior_tree/plugins/control/pipeline_sequence.cpp#L50

B is now `SUCCESS` so we move on to tick C, which happens to return `SUCCESS`. 

I think this test also reflect this: https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/blob/792893a5b56256cff8e9d4fb581e71d23892b5d6/nav2_behavior_tree/test/plugins/control/test_pipeline_sequence.cpp#L102

let me know if you would like some more meat describing this subtly, or if we should modify the scenario a bit to be simpler for the first intro

For additional details regarding the ``RecoveryNode`` please see the `RecoveryNode configuration guide <../../configuration/packages/bt-plugins/controls/RecoveryNode.html>`_.

Control: RoundRobin
-----------------------
The RoundRobin control node ticks it's children in a round robin fashion until a child returns ``SUCCESS``, in which the parent node will also return ``SUCCESS``. 
If all children return ``FAILURE`` so will the parent RoundRobin.

Here is an example BT we will use to walk through the concept.

|

 .. image:: images/custom_behavior_tree/control_round_robin.png
    :align: center

|                  

.. code-block:: xml

    <root main_tree_to_execute="MainTree">
        <BehaviorTree ID="MainTree">
            <RoundRobin>
                <Action_A/>
                <Action_B/>
                <Action_C/>
            </RoundRobin>
        </BehaviorTree>
    </root>

1. All the nodes start at ``IDLE``

|

 .. image:: images/custom_behavior_tree/control_round_robin_IDLE_IDLE_IDLE.png
    :align: center

| 

> 2. Upon tick of the parent node, the first child (``Action_A`` is ticked. Let's assume on tick the child returns ``RUNNING``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Upon tick of the parent node, the first child (``Action_A``) is ticked. Let's assume on tick the child returns ``RUNNING``.
```

|

 .. image:: images/custom_behavior_tree/control_round_robin_RUNNING_IDLE_IDLE.png
    :align: center

| 

3. Upon the next tick, let's assume that ``Action_A`` returns ``FAILURE``. 
This means that ``Action_B`` will get ticked next, and ``Action_C`` remains unticked. 
Let's assume ``Action_B`` returns ``RUNNING`` this time. That means the parent RoundRobin node will also return ``RUNNING``.

|

 .. image:: images/custom_behavior_tree/control_round_robin_FAILURE_RUNNING_IDLE.png
    :align: center

| 

4. Upon this next tick,  let's assume that ``Action_B`` returns ``SUCCESS``. The parent RoundRobin will now halt all children and returns ``SUCCESS``. 
The parent node retains this state information, and will tick ``Action_C`` upon the next tick rather than start from ``Action_A`` like Step 2 did.

|

 .. image:: images/custom_behavior_tree/control_round_robin_FAILURE_SUCCESS_IDLE.png
    :align: center

| 

5. On this tick, let's assume ``Action_C`` returns ``RUNNING``, and so does the parent RoundRobin. No other nodes are ticked.

|

 .. image:: images/custom_behavior_tree/control_round_robin_FAILURE_SUCCESS_RUNNING.png
    :align: center

| 

   

> 6. On this last tick, let's assume ``Action_C`` returns ``FAILURE``. The parent will circle and tick ``Action_A`` again. ``Action_A`` returns ``RUNNING`` and so will the parent RoundRobin node. This pattern will continue indefinitely.

Reviewer: This pattern will continue indefinitely, but in what situation does this stop? I don't think this explanation ever mentions that

    :align: center

|          

The ``Navigation`` subtree mainly involves actual navigation behavior:

- calculating a path
  
- following a path
  
- contextual recovery behaviors for each of the above primary navigation behaviors
  
The ``Recovery`` subtree includes recovery behaviors for system level failures or items that were not easily dealt with internally.

The overall BT will (hopefully) spend most of its time in the ``Navigation`` subtree. If either of the two main behaviors in the ``Navigation`` subtree fail
(path calculation or path following), contextual recoveries will be attempted.

If the contextual recoveries were still not enough, the ``Navigation`` subtree will return ``FAILURE``. 
The system will move on to the ``Recovery`` subtree to attempt to clear any system level navigation failures.

This happens until the ``number_of_retries`` for the parent ``RecoveryNode`` is exceeded (which by default is 6).

.. code-block:: xml

    <RecoveryNode number_of_retries="6" name="NavigateRecovery">

Navigation Subtree
======================

Now that we have gone over the control flow between the ``Navigation`` subtree and the ``Recovery`` subtree, 

> let's focus on the Navigation subtree.

Reviewer: What's with the "|" pipes?

Reviewer: https://728-240847415-gh.circle-artifacts.com/0/html/tutorials/docs/custom_behavior_tree.html#navigation-subtree they're rendering at the end of that paragraph

The below is the ``ComputePathToPose`` subtree:

|

 .. image:: images/custom_behavior_tree/contextual_recoveries.png
    :align: center

|      

The parent ``RecoveryNode`` controls the flow between the action, and the contextual recovery subtree. 
The contextual recoveries for both ``ComputePathToPose`` and ``FollowPath`` involve checking if the goal has been updated, and involves clearing the relevant costmap.

Consider changing the ``number_of_retries`` parameter in the parent ``RecoveryNode`` control node if your application can tolerate more attempts at contextual recoveries before moving on to system-level recoveries.

The only differences in the BT subtree of ``ComputePathToPose`` and ``FollowPath`` are outlined below:

- The action node in the subtree:
    - The ``ComputePathToPose`` subtree centers around the ``ComputePathToPose`` action. 
    - The ``FollowPath`` subtree centers around the ``FollowPath`` action.

- The ``RateController`` that decorates the ``ComputePathToPose`` subtree
    The ``RateController`` decorates the ``ComputePathToPose`` subtree to keep planning at the specified frequency. The default frequency for this BT is 1 hz. 

>     This is done to prevent the BT from flooding the planning server with too many useless requests at the tree update rate (100Hz). Consider changing this frequency to something higher or lower depending on the application and the computational cost of 

Reviewer: "Also consider using another decorator such as the distance or speed controller if appropriate"

    calculating the path. 
    
- The costmap that is being cleared within the contextual recovery:
    - The ``ComputePathToPose`` subtree clears the global costmap. The global costmap is the relevant costmap in the context of the planner
    - The ``FollowPath`` subtree clears the local costmap. The local costmap is the relevant costmap in the context of the controller

Recovery Subtree
================

> The ``Recovery`` subtree is the second big "half" of the Nav2 default ``navigate_w_replanning_and_recovery.xml`` tree.

Reviewer: All places where "navigate_w_replanning_and_recovery.xml" is listed, the Bt will be renamed in PR2271 with NavThroughPoses to "navigate_to_pose_w_replanning_and_recovery.xml", it may be worth updating all here now since that will likely be merged in before this (sometime this week)

This should look familiar to the contextual recovery portions of the ``Navigation`` subtree. This is a common BT pattern to handle the situation "Unless 'this condition' happens, Do action A".

These condition nodes can be extremely powerful and are typically paired with ``ReactiveFallback``. It can be easy to imagine wrapping this whole ``navigate_w_replanning_and_recovery`` tree
in a ``ReactiveFallback`` with a ``isBatteryLow`` condition -- meaning the ``navigate_w_replanning_and_recovery`` tree will execute *unless* the battery becomes low (and then entire a different subtree for docking to recharge). 

If the goal is never updated, the behavior tree will go on to the ``RoundRobin`` node. These are the default four system-level recoveries in the BT are:

- A sequence that clears both costmaps (local, and global)

- ``Spin`` recovery action

- ``Wait`` recovery action

- ``BackUp`` recovery action

Upon ``SUCCESS`` of any of the four children of the parent ``RoundRobin``, the robot will attempt to renavigate in the ``Navigation`` subtree. 
If this renavigation was not successful, the next child of the ``RoundRobin`` will be ticked.

> For example, let's say the robot is stuck and the ``Navigation`` subtree returns ``FAILURE``:

Reviewer: It would be nice if this example ended with a successful fix (e.g. one of the BT node actually did end up fixing the navigation subtree) so that the user can see how this can be used to **successfully** get the robot out of a jam
